# Easy: Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock

## Conceptualization

In this problem, you are tasked to find the most profitable time to buy and sell a stock, given a list of stock prices. The good thing is that the question is only asking for a single transaction, rather than multiple.

The first thing you have to do, as with any question, is to break it down:

1. Profitable: The biggest positive difference between the selling price and buying price of a stock.

	```
	profit = (selling price) - (buying price)
	```

2. You can only sell a stock, once you have bought it. Therefore, for a bought stock at index i, you would only have to compare it with any stock that follows i.

	```
	Input: [10, 5, 8, 12]
	Bought: 5
	Bought index: 1

	Prices to check: [8, 12]
	```

With the above rules, you can see that all you are doing is checking for the difference between a point in the list, and any other point that follows it. However, the task is not asking for the difference between all points, but for the __max difference__.

	```
	max profit = (max selling price) - (min buying price)
	```

Therefore, in order to find the maximum difference, or profit, you must identify a local maximum and local minimum, where the local maximum appears before the local minimum.

## Approach 1:

The bellow approach is a good first attempt at solving this task. However, you should try to think of a more elegant solution. The main drawback that this implementation has is that it relies on a nested for-each loop. This means that this function is running at n-squared time.

This is sub-optimal.

```python
def max_profit(prices: List[int]) -> int:
	max_profit: int = 0
	for buy in prices:
		for sell in prices[1:]:
			current_difference = sell - buy
			if max_profit < current_difference:
				max_profit = current_difference

	return max_profit
```

## Approach 2:

The benefit of the second solution is that it does not rely on a nested for-each loop.

```python
def max_profit(prices: List[int]) -> int:
	# If prices is empty, return 0
	if not prices:
		return 0

	# Initializing the buy variable
	buy: int = prices[0]

	# Initializing the max_profit variable
	max_profit: int = 0

	# For-each loop variable:
	# . sell: A price starting from index 1
	for sell in prices[1:]:
		# The next minimum value
		buy: int = min(buy, sell)

		# Checks if the current difference between buy and sell prices
		# is greater than the previous difference
		max_profit: int = max(max_profit, sell - buy)
	return max_profit
```

Another way to implement this function, with the same principles in mind. 

```python
def max_profit(prices: List[int]) -> int:
	if not prices:
		return 0
	
	buy: int = prices[0]
	max_profit: int = 0
	
	for sell in prices[1:]:
		if buy > sell:
			buy = sell
			continue

		profit = sell - buy
		if max_profit < profit:
			max_profit = profit
	return max_profit
```

You will notice that the first condition within the for-each loop uses the `continue` syntax. This will prevent the function from calculating the difference and doing a comparison if the current buying price is greater than the selling price. Since in the mentioned case, we would not want to sell.
